---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/english/1-macbeth/"}
---

### Concept:
#### 1. Macbeth
##### Macbeth's lust for Power
- His lust for power makes sense, as all that he was promised by the wishes came true, so he developed a false sense of security in their promises.
- His lust for power therefore becomes his fatal flaw
- It doesn't help that his wife pushes him into his decisions by questioning things such as his masculinity
##### Macbeth's humanity
- Despite his many flaws, Macbeth is still a very human character, after all the reason why he was promoted to thane of Cawdor was because he was a good and honourable person
- Therefore his conscience torments him in the form of paranoia and guilt, for example the banquet scene in Act III, Scene IV.
##### Macbeth's paradoxical behaviour
-  For the power-hungry Macbeth, his paradoxical combination of greedy ambition and sudden doubt leads to his demise.
- This is probably most clear inn the final battle between him and Macduff, where after finding out that he was not 'born of woman' his confidence and invincibility disappear.
- With this in mind we can say that Macbeth's self-professed **Vaulting ambition** (Act I Scene VII, Line 27) that ultimately led to his death.

#### Quotes
- [[English/Guilt\|Guilt]]
- [[English/Symbolism of Blood in Macbeth\|Symbolism of Blood in Macbeth]]
> I am in blood 
> Stepp'd in so far, that, should I wade no more, 
> Returning were as tedious as go o'er.
- After seeing Banquo's ghost, Macbeth seeks to consult the witches on his fate. He points out to his wife that he is too far gone to stop now.
- When Macbeth says "I am in blood" he presents himself as entirely surrounded by murder: instead of causing blood to simply flow from others, he also feels the effects of that violent action--the blood he spilled has surrounded him. He clarifies that this is a result of having "Stepp'd in so far" into the metaphorical bloody pool; while "wade no more" signifies that he cannot stay afloat but will drown in the liquid. Therefore Macbeth uses the metaphor of a pool of blood to articulate his guilt: he believes that what he has done has sealed his fate and now trying to shift fate is pointless. ==The choice of the term "tedious" complicates this, however. Macbeth is in a way saying that he very well could change his behaviour, however to do so would simply be tedious, but he also says that to "go o'er", i.e. continue his current course, would be as tedious. Demonstrating that Macbeth no long finds satisfaction in his path. However, whether out of apathy or inertia, he continues on, but recognises that he could possibly break his destiny if her were a more courageous man. ==
	- Character arc relating to his [[English/Guilt\|Guilt]] as well as (his loss of) [[English/Honour and bravery\|Honour and bravery]]

- [[English/Guilt\|Guilt]]
- [[English/The Supernatural\|The Supernatural]]
- [[Japanese/Symbolism of Hallucinations in Macbeth\|Symbolism of Hallucinations in Macbeth]]
>Is this a dagger which I see before me, 
>The handle toward my hand? 
>Come, let me clutch thee; 
>I have thee not, and yet I see thee still. 
>Art thou not, fatal vision, sensible 
>To feeling as to sight? or art thou but 
>A dagger of the mind, a false creation, 
>Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain? 
>I see thee yet, in form as palpable 
>As this which now I draw
- Macbeth before murdering Duncan
- A primarily psychological analysis of this lines would reveal the first signs of Macbeth's insanity. His inability to distinguish between a physical and imaginary dagger does not prevent him from hoping to "clutch" either one. When he cannot, he notes that it is impossible to "have" the vision, and yet that he can still "see" it, and is confused why his sense of sight and touch do not accord. Macbeth recognises the conditions of his sanity, observing that his "heat-oppressed brain" may be responsible for creating the illusion, or in other words he thinks his guilt may be causing him to see things. Yet after noting this he still reiterates the "palpable" nature of the dagger, comparing it to the physical world.
- Beyond introducing the idea that Macbeth may be going insane, it also acts to further the theme of appearances versus reality. Macbeth may be fixating on a false vision, but the vision actually reveals to him a truth--for it is a portent of the murder to come. in a sense the "foul" vision is "fair" in that it is an accurate representation of reality, while not being real itself. And when Macbeth does "draw" his own sword, he implies that it may even have a causal effect on his own actions. Shakespeare thus presents false visions not as figments of the imagination but as capable of inducing changes to reality itself.

- [[English/The Supernatural\|The Supernatural]]
- [[English/Ambition\|Ambition]]
- [[English/Guilt\|Guilt]]
> Stars, hide your fires! 
> Let not light see my black and deep desires.
- After finding out that Duncan will be coming to his castle, Macbeth fantasises about murdering him and seizing the throne for himself. He wishes to obscure these thoughts from outside observers by asking the stars to hide darken.
- At this early point in the play Macbeth is still unsure whether or not he wants to go through with his plot to murder Duncan. He remains careful of his desires and has a sense of paranoia surrounding the threat of someone finding this out, therefore he calls upon the stars to "hide your fires" so that no one will see his "black and deep desires." The quote here plays upon common themes and metaphors of light and dark, however in this case the colours can be interpreted in a different way: black obviously alludes to his morally unscrupulousness, however 'light' does not stand in for an opposite. Rather it acts as a biblical allusion, where light is a stand in for an observer, in this case God, playing upon visions of God as a being of 'light.' Therefore it seems that Macbeth is less concerned about other human beings will spy his desires, but rather that he will receive some divine punishment because of it.
	- Part of Macbeth's character arc

- [[English/Ambition\|Ambition]]
> I have no spur 
> To prick the sides of my intent, but only 
> Vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself 
> And falls on the other.
- Macbeth wonders whether or not he should follow through on his plan to kill Duncan. He observes that he is being motivated by aspirations of power, rather than responding to a specific injustice.
- Shakespeare here makes a subtle point about two different reasons why one would be impelled to act. The first is to have a "spur" or clear impetus for doing something, while the second is a more general "vaulting ambition." By describing the spur as something that can "prick the sides," Macbeth stresses how it is a narrow and specific stimulus; as a result it has a direct causal effect on his "intent." Ambition, on the other hand, tends to "o'erleap[] itself," meaning that it encourages one to act beyond his or her reasonable means. It overshoots a goal and as a result can have negative consequences.
- What is intriguing about this passage is that Macbeth seems keenly aware of his motivations and limitations. Though he may be acting out of "vaulting ambition," he is not immediately convinced by that desire. He can critically assess what stimulates him to act, and its likely consequences. Yet, at the same time, time he *will* ultimately ignore this scepticism and indeed "o"erleap" himself. Shakespeare thus gives a complex  presentation of human psychology, in which people may introspectively not the flaws of their motivations, while still falling prey to those very flaws. 

- [[English/Masculinity\|Masculinity]]
> I dare do all that may become a man; 
> Who dares do more, is none.
- Having decided against murdering Duncan, Macbeth finds his manhood being questioned by his wife. In response he argues that composure and allegiance are more characteristic of masculinity than rash violence.
- Macbeth says that he will only perform actions that "become a man"--a pun on "become" meaning both to become something, as well as a characteristic that proceeds ones character. In effect he is saying that his actions are made as a way to increase his manhood, but are also done as a way to give off the image of manhood, indicating that Macbeth does not see himself as fully masculine. Macbeth reasons, he would not be a man, for he would have overstepped the boundary of behaviours that define men. In this way, Macbeth describes manhood as a limit on his actions instead of a justification for more like Lady Macbeth.
- This passage returns to the theme of gender identities. Recall that Lady Macbeth renounced her womanhood earlier in Act 1, Scene 5 in order to disavow empathy and heartlessly pursue her goal of power. Yet in the lines after Macbeth's quote here, she asks Macbeth to do just the opposite with his gender: to maintain and embrace it. This contrast shows that she sees Manhood as equivalent to brute and rash action, whereas before that cruelty seemed to stem only from the supernatural or inhuman realm. Macbeth, however, unseats her opinion by defining manhood in terms of composure and clam intent. Shakespeare thus places the question of gender identity at the heart of this tragedy, presenting it as an ideological tool used by the characters to encourage each other to act more or less aggressively.

- [[English/The Supernatural\|The Supernatural]]
- [[Japanese/Symbolism of sleep in Macbeth\|Symbolism of sleep in Macbeth]]
- [[English/Guilt\|Guilt]]
> Methought I heard a voice cry, Sleep no more! 
> Macbeth does murder sleep, — the innocent sleep; 
> Sleep, that knits up the ravell'd sleave of care, 
> The death of each day's life, sore labor's bath, 
> Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course, 
> Chief nourisher in life's feast.
- After murdering Duncan, Macbeth begins to feel remorse for what he has done. he fixates on a voice he claims to have overheard during the act, believing that it charges him with deep guilt.
- This quote servers to highlight Macbeth's continued descent into madness due to his growing guilt. His previous hallucinations that manifested due to his guilt have now progressed to the point where he is now able to hear them as well. Macbeth states that he heard "a voice cry, Sleep no more!" This line acts as a double entendre: not only has Macbeth murdered someone while they were in "the innocent sleep," but now with the guilt of having committed such a crime, Macbeth shall no longer be able to sleep. The quote goes onto describe the consequences that having committed this crime will have, such as, "the balm of hurt minds" and "sore labor's bath." By emphasizing these qualities, the audience can come to see the path towards insanity that Macbeth has placed himself on.
- Further explanation from Litcharts:
	- He imagines it to be a weaver who "knits up" or makes coherent and composed "the ravell'd sleave of care"--in which a "ravell'd sleave" is a messy and disorganized garment. This metaphor presents sleep as a tranquil and organising force that helps a person make coherent the chaos of life, that allows people to be coherent and calm. In the following lines, he casts sleep as the inverse or double to different types of daytime: the "death" after each "life"; the restful "bath" after one works; the "balm" to ease minds that may be overworked; a second sustenance after the meal of the day. These evocative images show how deeply Macbeth believes to have violated human life--for not only has he murdered Duncan but he has done so in an almost sacred space of sleeping rejuvenation. As Macbeth's obsessive thoughts on sleep proceed, an intimation exists too that "Sleep no more!" refers to the rampant guilt and madness that will descend now on Macbeth and his wife, in which because of their guilt, they will lose these healthful and necessary effects of sleep.

- [[English/1. Macbeth\|1. Macbeth]]
- [[English/Guilt\|Guilt]]
> Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood clean from my hand?