---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/english/2-lady-macbeth/"}
---

### Concept:
#### 2. Lady Macbeth
##### Lady Macbeth's ambition
- Lady Macbeth's key role arises because of her Ambition.
- Lady Macbeth doesn't pay attention to the blood on her hands at first, because she simply doesn't care.
- Her innate ambition makes her cunning, devious, and willing to do anything for power.
##### Lady Macbeth's cruelty
- She manipulates Macbeth by frequently criticising him for his lack of masculinity. This usually happens when Macbeth's ambition is overruled by his conscious ([[English/1. Macbeth\|1. Macbeth]])
##### Lady Macbeth's guilt
- Lady Macbeth is not the heartless creatures she wants to be. 
- As Macbeth grows more ruthless, the murder of innocents sends her on a spiral towards insanity ("out, damned spot!")
- While Lady Macbeth is a strong, terrifying character who intimidates her husband she also struggles to deal with her actions and ultimately succumbs to her guilt.

#### Quotes
- [[English/Symbolism of Blood in Macbeth\|Symbolism of Blood in Macbeth]]
- [[English/Masculinity\|Masculinity]]
- [[English/Ambition\|Ambition]]
- [[English/The Supernatural\|The Supernatural]]
- [[English/Christianity and the Chain of Being\|Christianity and the Chain of Being]]
> Come, you spirits 
> That tend on mortal thoughts! unsex me here, 
> And fill me from the crown to the toe, top-full 
> Of direst cruelty; make thick my blood, 
> Stop up the access and passage to remorse, 
> That no compunctious visitings of nature 
> Shake my fell purpose, nor keep peace between 
> The effect and it! Come to my woman's breasts, 
> And take my milk for gall.
- After leaning that King Duncan will be staying at Macbeth's castle, she begins plotting his demise, asking the spirits to relinquish her of her human compassion to carry out the deed.
- relates to her character arc, look at other themes in order to construct analysis.

- [[English/The Supernatural\|The Supernatural]]
- [[English/Guilt\|Guilt]]
- [[English/Symbolism of Blood in Macbeth\|Symbolism of Blood in Macbeth]]
>Out, damned spot! out, I say!
- Lady Macbeth has begun sleepwalking, and one night she says this.
- We can see the extent to which guilt has crippled Lady Macbeth's ability to live a normal life. Saying this lines shows that while she thought that before she could simply wash off Duncan's blood, now she cannot psychologically escape the blood, or in other words, the guilt of Duncan's murder. She obsessively repeats the action, demonstrating the extent to which the guilt weighs on her mind, as well as her fear that the "spot" could implicate her in the murder.
	- Relates to he character arc, specifically her fall from the start of the play where she displays courage in going through with the murders, however now she is racked by guilt and paranoia.

- [[English/The Supernatural\|The Supernatural]]
- [[English/Manipulation\|Manipulation]]
- [[English/Deception\|Deception]]
> Look like the innocent flower, 
> But be the serpent under it.
-  Lady Macbeth entreats her husband to kill Duncan. She implores him to act secretly but strike violently.
- These lines return to the theme of appearance vs reality. While Macbeth is still uncertain as to whether or not to kill Duncan, Lady Macbeth is fully committed to the idea. She contrasts the image of the "innocent flower" with the active corruption of "the serpent," much like the witches mixed up "fair" and "foul" in the beginning of the play. For her however, this does not express a general predicament, but instead an outline to gain political power.
- Referencing a serpent is also a biblical allusion to the garden of Eden in the bible, in which a snake tempts Eve and leads to humanity's expulsion from paradise. This Christ reference is especially evocative of considering Lady Macbeth's engagement with supernatural paganism: just as she summoned the aid of fiends, Lady Macbeth symbolically asks her husband to strike out against Christian ideals--to take the role of a Biblical Villain.
	- Could be seen as another example of Lady Macbeth taking charge over Macbeth, where she is giving him direct orders.

- [[English/Ambition\|Ambition]]
- [[English/Masculinity\|Masculinity]]
- [[English/Fate vs Free will\|Fate vs Free will]]
>We fail? 
>But screw your courage to the sticking-place, 
>And we'll not fail.
- Lady Macbeth continues to convince Macbeth that they should kill Duncan. When he wonders whether they will actually succeed, she argues that with sufficient fortitude they will certainly triumph
- When Macbeth wonders whether they will fail, Lady Macbeth replies "We fail?" In contrast to Macbeth's hesitancy, she opts for an aggressive command--"screw your courage"--and an acerbic claim: "we'll not fail." Bravery and adherence to one's goals, in her opinion will ensure success.
- Their exchange insinuates two diverging views on human destiny: Whereas Macbeth attributes success to the whims of fates and prophecies, Lady Macbeth believes that humans themselves can select their own destiny. Her command "screw your courage to the sticking-place" implies that sufficient bravery will ensure success regardless of any external influence. Between these two characters, then, Shakespeare defines a spectrum of human relationships to destiny and personal agency--in which some attribute success to personal prowess while others see it as being out of one's own hands.

- [[English/The Supernatural\|The Supernatural]]
- [[English/Ambition\|Ambition]]
- [[English/Guilt\|Guilt]]
>Nought's had, all's spent 
>Where our desire is got without content.
- Lady Macbeth ponders why she continues to be dissatisfied with her existence. She acknowledges that she has had complete success in her endeavours but somehow remains vexed.
- These lines reveal a change in Lady Macbeth's disposition. Whereas before, she believed that he murder of Duncan would generate positive results, here she concludes the exact opposite. "Nought's had, all's spent" must be taken metaphorically--because Macbeth and Lady Macbeth have in fact achieved their goal of becoming king and queen. The line also elaborates on her disposition, where she feels that she has given everything that she can, but has received nothing in return. Lady Macbeth states that the trade-off of political power in exchange for "content," which we can take to mean "guilt-free contentment," wasn't at all worth it.
- Beyond revealing a growing dissatisfaction in Lady Macbeth, this passage makes a broader claim on the trappings of power and fame. Lady Macbeth points out that the status she had pursued does not in fact grant her happiness, but rather has brought her into greater misfortune. Thus Shakespeare uses her psychological anxiety as a way to illustrate the self-defeating natures of ambition and desire.