---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/english/3-banquo/"}
---

### Concept:
#### Humility and selflessness
- Where Macbeth is ambitious and selfish, Banquo is humble and selfless.
- In Act III Scene I, he wonders if the witches' prophecy that he will be "the root of the father/of many kings" (Lines 5-6) might "**Set [him] up in hope**" (Line 10). But, he never develops an obsession with power the way Macbeth does.
#### Wisdom
- He sees through the witches and knows that what they're telling him isn't definitive at all, contrasting heavily with Macbeth.
- he also sees through Macbeth, suspecting that he "**played most foully**" (Act III Scene I, Line 3) for the throne.
- Banquo can be seen as a pillar of wisdom and common-sense, and with his death, so does all rationality die with him.
#### Quotes
- [[English/Masculinity\|Masculinity]]
- [[English/Manipulation\|Manipulation]]
- [[English/Fate vs Free will\|Fate vs Free will]]
- [[English/Ambition\|Ambition]]
- [[English/The Supernatural\|The Supernatural]]
>And oftentimes, to win us to our harm, 
>The instruments of darkness tell us truths, 
>Win us with honest trifles, to betray's 
>In deepest consequence.
- Macbeth and Banquo have just learned that Macbeth will become the thane of Cawdor, which confirms the first part of the witches prophecy, Banquo notes that the stories told by the witches may be an attempt to manipulate Macbeth.
- These lines pose an important question about the supernatural at the start of the play: are these men able to escape the witches prophecies, or are they bound by fate to walk down the road set before them? When Banquo says they "win us to our harm," he contends that the witches are actively exploiting him and Macbeth, yet he also note that they "tell us truths"--which would seem to imply that nothing they recount is false. The resolution comes in a similarly paradoxical phrase: "Honest trifles" that "betray." What Banquo means is that aspects of the witches prophecies are genuine, but that they are meant to instead play upon their better nature as a way to manipulate or "betray" themselves.
- Banquo thus argues that he and Macbeth should resist believing the witches too much, despite their prophecies being correct so far. This belief posits a worldview in which humans can act freely from the influence of supernatural forces--choosing to believe them or not. Macbeth, n the other hand, represents the position that direct adherence to their prophecies will allow him to thwart his fate. Shakespeare thus uses these two characters mixed responses to present two different ways of viewing the supernatural forces in his work: as either manoeuvring or merely recounting fate. 
