---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/english/6-the-witches/"}
---

### Concept:
#### The Evil Uncertainty of the Witches
- As the witches don't have the kind of personality traits we've been talking about for the other characters, they represent uncertainty associated with the supernatural. And because of the multiple possible ways their prophecies could unfold, we suspect that there's something else hidden in the witches' character: **evil**.
- As the play continues the witches' intentions become clearer and clearer. By Act IV, we know that they're brewing trouble for Macbeth. Their predictions are never clear... yet Macbeth *still* clings to them as sources of the truth.

#### Quotes
- [[English/The Supernatural\|The Supernatural]]
- [[English/Symbolism of Hallucinations in Macbeth\|Symbolism of Hallucinations in Macbeth]]
> Fair is foul, and foul is fair;
> Hover through the fog and filthy air. 
- In the plays opening scene, the three witches gather in a storm and discuss their upcoming meet with Macbeth. Together they chant these lines about the moral uncertainty and decay in Scotland.
- Both the phrase "Fair is foul," and "foul is fair" signify that everything is not what it seems, with that which is good instead being bad, and that which appears bad being good. Thus the witches point out the fickle quality of appearances--a recurring theme throughout the tragedy. This line is also an example of the rhetorical device of chiasmus: when elements are of a text are arranged in the form ABBA, with "A" being "Fair" and "B" being "foul." This device can have multiple meanings depending on the circumstances, but here it gives a rhythmical tone to the text, a theme that is used many times in relation to the supernatural to give it an otherworldly feel.
- The image of "fog and filthy air" similarly foreshadows how the senses of characters will be confused, preventing them from correctly assessing what would be fair or foul. More generally, this image showcases how symbols and ethics will be mixed up in the tragedy. As supernatural creatures, the witches themselves seem decrepit and "foul" -- but their prophecies are also accurate, which would make them "fair." These lines do not only make a distinction between the false appearance and honest reality, but rather question the very ability to determine the moral goodness of any such reality.

- [[English/Ambition\|Ambition]]
- [[English/The Supernatural\|The Supernatural]]
> By the pricking of my thumbs, 
> Something wicked this way comes.
- The witches prepare for Macbeth's arrival by mixing an unnatural brew in the cauldron. During their incantation, one makes this pronouncement on impending evil.
- These lines firstly verify the supernatural powers of the witches. They are able to sense from physical stimuli--"the pricking"--in their bodies that something "wicked" will take  place in the future. Although the audience might be sceptical of the actual mystical powers the witches possess, this image confirms that they have at least a limited capacity to see the future.  
- At the same time, by describing the wicked phenomenon as a separate external force--the phrasing of "this way comes" is a passive construction--the witches also present themselves as observers of fate, rather than active agents that bring certain events to pass. So while other human characters may see the witches as manipulative spirits willing bad events into existence, their actual incantations  show them to be mere bystanders and oracles of fate. ==The witches comment describes Macbeth as the wicked one, implying that while their prophecy may have been accurate, it was Macbeth's wickedness that caused him to pursue it as he did (or perhaps that his choice to pursue it as he did has made him wicked).==